All right.
So welcome to the next section of the course.
This section is also focused on the composition API, the new way that we can build Vue components in
Vue 3.0.
And as always, I think the best way to learn is by refactoring the components that we have that are
using the Options API to now utilize the composition API.
And we're going to get exposure to a lot of different things that we still need to learn how to do in
the composition API.
So let's start with an old component called job search form.
So right here, I'm going to open up job search form.
And as a reminder, this component is rendered on the main page, and this is actually where the user
provides the job role and the job location that they're interested in.
We haven't actually connected this to the job results page yet.
We will eventually.
But as a reminder, this is that form.
And so what we're doing here is we're actually using one of our own components called text input, and
we're using the V model directive to connect a piece of data on this component.
With this text input here we're using role and here we're using location.
And as a reminder of our old implementation role and location are simply a pieces of data and pieces
of data are a great way to store text inputs because they are by definition, values that are going
to change over time.
Role and location start out as empty strings.
And every time the user types a character, the V model captures that and updates the corresponding
data property.
So now let's go ahead and replace our old implementation using the new composition API.
So as always, I'm going to comment out the former code, which is not just going to include data but
also methods below because remember methods is also the options API.
So let's commit this out.
And right here I'm going to start with my setup method and in this lesson I just want to tackle the
data properties in the next lesson will take care of the method right here.
So how do we create a piece of data that is going to change over time?
In the composition API, we use our familiar ref function.
That is a perfect way to create a reactive piece of data and thus when it changes, that reactivity
can update something like the V model directive in our template.
So right here I'm going to import the ref function import ref from the view library and here we're going
to use ref once for every piece of data that we want.
So for a role, we're going to invoke the ref function and provide the initial starting value which
just like below is going to be an empty string.
We're going to repeat the exact same logic for location.
So Can's location, we're going to invoke Ref to get a reactive object and its initial value property
will be an empty string.
And we're going to want to utilize role and location right here in our templates.
Here is where we're using role.
Here is where we're using location.
Remember, simply because we declare these constants in setup does not mean they're available to our
template.
In order to make that happen, we need to return an object.
And here's where we define the properties that are going to be available in the HTML.
So we need to provide role and we need to provide location.
And with that, we have successfully replaced our old data object right here with new individual calls
to the ref function.
All right, so we've taken care of half of our old code.
In the very next lesson, it will take care of replacing our former search for jobs method.
So I'll see you there.